#The CodeBook
The following Document describes the variables presented in the data set generated by run_analysis.r

##Original Data set description

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. 

###For each record it is provided:

* Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
* Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
* A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
* Its activity label. 
* An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

##For the new Data Set

The final data set is reduced to 68 variables and a total of 180 observations. The variables are the average of the means (without mean frequency) and standard deviations measurements from the original data set they are grouped by subject and activity, these include the means for . So each record represents the average of the measurements in an activity for a particular subject. 

### Renaming of the variables
The variables were renamed to a complete lower case standard with no whitespaces, the units remain the same, being

*subjectID is the value that represents a particular subject, it ranges from 1 to 30
* activity is the activity being performed at a particular measurement and the possible values are WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS,SITTING, STANDING and LAYING

* Prefix t renamed to "timefor" 
* Prefix f renamed to "frequencyfor"
* XYZ naming unchanged
* "Acc" renamed to "Accelaration"
* "Gyro" renamed to "Gyroscope"
* "Mag" renamed to "magnitude"
* Energy,Body, Jerk and Gravity were given lowercase names
* mean() renamed to mean
* std renamed to standarddeviation

NOTE: the measurements in the means of 

*gravityMean
*tBodyAccMean
*tBodyAccJerkMean
*tBodyGyroMean
*tBodyGyroJerkMean

Were not removed